README.md, before:

# MediaWiki Docker Image

This repo is largely based on MediaWiki offical [docker repo](https://github.com/wikimedia/mediawiki-docker).

The changes are:

* Used "Vector" skin by default
* Used PHP-Apache docker image as base
* Used stable version of MediaWiki
* Customized for the production use

## Configuration options

Use the following environmental variables to generate a `LocalSettings.php` and perform automatic installation of MediaWiki. If you don't include these, you'll need to go through the installation wizard. See `Installation Wizard` below for more details. Please see [Manual:Configuration_settings](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:Configuration_settings) for details about what these configuration variables do.

 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_SITE_SERVER=` (**required** set this to the server host and include the protocol (and port if necessary) like `http://my-wiki:8080`; configures `$wgServer`)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_SITE_NAME=` (defaults to `MediaWiki`; configures `$wgSitename`)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_SITE_LANG=` (defaults to `en`; configures `$wgLanguageCode`)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_ADMIN_USER=` (defaults to `admin`; configures default administrator username)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_ADMIN_PASS=` (defaults to `rosebud`; configures default administrator password)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_UPDATE=true` (defaults to `false`; run `php maintenance/update.php`)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_SLEEP=` (defaults to `0`; delays startup of container, useful when using Docker Compose)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_EXTENSIONS` (defaults to empty; specify which extensions to enable, comma separated. Extensions are installed through docker image build)
 - `-e PARSOID_URL` (defaults to `http://localhost:8000`, parsoid instance URL)
 - `-e PARSOID_DOMAIN` (defaults to `localhost`, parsoid domain)
 - `-e PARSOID_PREFIX` (defaults to `localhost`, parsoid prefix)
 - `-e RESTBASE_URL` (defaults not set, RestBase instance URL, if not set, no RestBase will be configured)
 - `-e LDAP_DOMAIN` (defaults not set, LDAP domain, e.g. CWL)
 - `-e LDAP_SERVER` (defaults not set, LDAP server address)
 - `-e LDAP_PORT` (defaults to `389`, LDAP server port)
 - `-e LDAP_AUTO_CREATE` (defaults to `false`, auto create user account if not in MediaWiki)
 - `-e LDAP_BASE_DN` (defaults to `ou=Users,ou=LOCAL,dc=domain,dc=local`, LDAP base DN)
 - `-e LDAP_SEARCH_STRINGS` (defaults not set, LDAP search string)
 - `-e LDAP_SEARCH_ATTRS` (defaults not set, LDAP search attribute)
 - `-e LDAP_PROXY_AGENT` (defaults not set, LDAP proxy agent)
 - `-e LDAP_PROXY_PASSWORD` (defaults not set, LDAP proxy agent password)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_MAIN_CACHE` (defaults to `CACHE_NONE`, main cache)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_MEMCACHED_SERVERS` (defaults to `[]`, list of memcched servers, comma separated, e.g.["memcached:11211", "memcached1:11211"])

As mentioned, this will generate the `LocalSettings.php` file that is required by MediaWiki. If you mounted a shared volume (see `Shared Volume` below), the generated `LocalSettings.php` will be automatically moved to your share volume allowing you to edit it. If a `CustomSettings.php` file exists in your data file, a `require('/data/CustomSettings.php');` will be appended to the generated `LocalSettings.php` file.

## Docker Compose

```bash
docker-compose up
```
Customization can be done through the environment variables in `docker-compose.yaml`.

### Using Database Server

You can use the following environment variables for connecting to another database server:

 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_DB_TYPE=...` (defaults to `mysql`, but can also be `postgres`)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_DB_HOST=...` (defaults to the address of the linked database container)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_DB_PORT=...` (defaults to the port of the linked database container or to the default for specified db type)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_DB_USER=...` (defaults to `root` or `postgres` based on db type being `mysql`, or `postgres` respsectively)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_DB_PASSWORD=...` (defaults to the password of the linked database container)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_DB_NAME=...` (defaults to `mediawiki`)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_DB_SCHEMA`... (defaults to `mediawiki`, applies only to when using postgres)

If the `MEDIAWIKI_DB_NAME` specified does not already exist on the provided MySQL
server, it will be created automatically upon container startup, provided
that the `MEDIAWIKI_DB_USER` specified has the necessary permissions to create
it.

To use with an external database server, use `MEDIAWIKI_DB_HOST` (along with
`MEDIAWIKI_DB_USER` and `MEDIAWIKI_DB_PASSWORD` if necessary):

    docker run --name some-mediawiki \
        -e MEDIAWIKI_DB_HOST=10.0.0.1
        -e MEDIAWIKI_DB_PORT=3306 \
        -e MEDIAWIKI_DB_USER=app \
        -e MEDIAWIKI_DB_PASSWORD=secure \
        wikimedia/mediawiki

## Shared Volume

If provided mount a shared volume using the `-v` argument when running `docker run`, the mediawiki container will automatically look for a `LocalSettings.php` file and `images`, `skins` and `extensions` folders. When found symbolic links will be automatically created to the respsective file or folder to replace the ones included with the default MediaWiki install. This allows you to easily configure (`LocalSettings.php`), backup uploaded files (`images`), and customize (`skins` and `extensions`) your instance of MediaWiki.

It is highly recommend you mount a shared volume so uploaded files and images will be outside of the docker container.

By default the shared volume must be mounted to `/data` on the container, you can change this using by using `-e MEDIAWIKI_SHARED=/new/data/path`.

Additionally if a `composer.lock` **and** a `composer.json` are detected, the container will automatically download [composer](https://getcomposer.org) and run `composer install`. Composer can be used to install additional extensions, skins and dependencies.

## Accessing MediaWiki


Access it via `http://localhost:8080` or `http://host-ip:8080` in a browser.

Commit message:

Add LDAP_ENCRYPTION_TYPE option

README.md, after:

# MediaWiki Docker Image

This repo is largely based on MediaWiki offical [docker repo](https://github.com/wikimedia/mediawiki-docker).

The changes are:

* Used "Vector" skin by default
* Used PHP-Apache docker image as base
* Used stable version of MediaWiki
* Customized for the production use

## Configuration options

Use the following environmental variables to generate a `LocalSettings.php` and perform automatic installation of MediaWiki. If you don't include these, you'll need to go through the installation wizard. See `Installation Wizard` below for more details. Please see [Manual:Configuration_settings](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:Configuration_settings) for details about what these configuration variables do.

 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_SITE_SERVER=` (**required** set this to the server host and include the protocol (and port if necessary) like `http://my-wiki:8080`; configures `$wgServer`)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_SITE_NAME=` (defaults to `MediaWiki`; configures `$wgSitename`)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_SITE_LANG=` (defaults to `en`; configures `$wgLanguageCode`)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_ADMIN_USER=` (defaults to `admin`; configures default administrator username)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_ADMIN_PASS=` (defaults to `rosebud`; configures default administrator password)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_UPDATE=true` (defaults to `false`; run `php maintenance/update.php`)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_SLEEP=` (defaults to `0`; delays startup of container, useful when using Docker Compose)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_EXTENSIONS` (defaults to empty; specify which extensions to enable, comma separated. Extensions are installed through docker image build)
 - `-e PARSOID_URL` (defaults to `http://localhost:8000`, parsoid instance URL)
 - `-e PARSOID_DOMAIN` (defaults to `localhost`, parsoid domain)
 - `-e PARSOID_PREFIX` (defaults to `localhost`, parsoid prefix)
 - `-e RESTBASE_URL` (defaults not set, RestBase instance URL, if not set, no RestBase will be configured)
 - `-e LDAP_DOMAIN` (defaults not set, LDAP domain, e.g. CWL)
 - `-e LDAP_SERVER` (defaults not set, LDAP server address)
 - `-e LDAP_PORT` (defaults to `389`, LDAP server port)
 - `-e LDAP_ENCRYPTION_TYPE` (defaults to `clear`, LDAP connection encryption type, possible values are `clear`, `tls` and `ssl`)
 - `-e LDAP_AUTO_CREATE` (defaults to `false`, auto create user account if not in MediaWiki)
 - `-e LDAP_BASE_DN` (defaults to `ou=Users,ou=LOCAL,dc=domain,dc=local`, LDAP base DN)
 - `-e LDAP_SEARCH_STRINGS` (defaults not set, LDAP search string)
 - `-e LDAP_SEARCH_ATTRS` (defaults not set, LDAP search attribute)
 - `-e LDAP_PROXY_AGENT` (defaults not set, LDAP proxy agent)
 - `-e LDAP_PROXY_PASSWORD` (defaults not set, LDAP proxy agent password)
 - `-e LDAP_DEBUG` (defaults to `0`, LDAP debug level, debug file is located /tmp/mw_ldap_debug.log)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_MAIN_CACHE` (defaults to `CACHE_NONE`, main cache)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_MEMCACHED_SERVERS` (defaults to `[]`, list of memcched servers, comma separated, e.g.["memcached:11211", "memcached1:11211"])

As mentioned, this will generate the `LocalSettings.php` file that is required by MediaWiki. If you mounted a shared volume (see `Shared Volume` below), the generated `LocalSettings.php` will be automatically moved to your share volume allowing you to edit it. If a `CustomSettings.php` file exists in your data file, a `require('/data/CustomSettings.php');` will be appended to the generated `LocalSettings.php` file.

## Docker Compose

```bash
docker-compose up
```
Customization can be done through the environment variables in `docker-compose.yaml`.

### Using Database Server

You can use the following environment variables for connecting to another database server:

 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_DB_TYPE=...` (defaults to `mysql`, but can also be `postgres`)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_DB_HOST=...` (defaults to the address of the linked database container)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_DB_PORT=...` (defaults to the port of the linked database container or to the default for specified db type)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_DB_USER=...` (defaults to `root` or `postgres` based on db type being `mysql`, or `postgres` respsectively)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_DB_PASSWORD=...` (defaults to the password of the linked database container)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_DB_NAME=...` (defaults to `mediawiki`)
 - `-e MEDIAWIKI_DB_SCHEMA`... (defaults to `mediawiki`, applies only to when using postgres)

If the `MEDIAWIKI_DB_NAME` specified does not already exist on the provided MySQL
server, it will be created automatically upon container startup, provided
that the `MEDIAWIKI_DB_USER` specified has the necessary permissions to create
it.

To use with an external database server, use `MEDIAWIKI_DB_HOST` (along with
`MEDIAWIKI_DB_USER` and `MEDIAWIKI_DB_PASSWORD` if necessary):

    docker run --name some-mediawiki \
        -e MEDIAWIKI_DB_HOST=10.0.0.1
        -e MEDIAWIKI_DB_PORT=3306 \
        -e MEDIAWIKI_DB_USER=app \
        -e MEDIAWIKI_DB_PASSWORD=secure \
        wikimedia/mediawiki

## Shared Volume

If provided mount a shared volume using the `-v` argument when running `docker run`, the mediawiki container will automatically look for a `LocalSettings.php` file and `images`, `skins` and `extensions` folders. When found symbolic links will be automatically created to the respsective file or folder to replace the ones included with the default MediaWiki install. This allows you to easily configure (`LocalSettings.php`), backup uploaded files (`images`), and customize (`skins` and `extensions`) your instance of MediaWiki.

It is highly recommend you mount a shared volume so uploaded files and images will be outside of the docker container.

By default the shared volume must be mounted to `/data` on the container, you can change this using by using `-e MEDIAWIKI_SHARED=/new/data/path`.

Additionally if a `composer.lock` **and** a `composer.json` are detected, the container will automatically download [composer](https://getcomposer.org) and run `composer install`. Composer can be used to install additional extensions, skins and dependencies.

## Accessing MediaWiki


Access it via `http://localhost:8080` or `http://host-ip:8080` in a browser.
